Metadata fields,Description,Example
Data name,Name of the sequencing dataset,
Study type,Specify the type of microbiome study performed, "Field, semi-field, laboratory"
Sample name,Name of the sample as described in deposited dataset and publication,
Sample ID,Sample identification as described in deposited dataset and publication ,
Number per sample,Number of individuals per sample (indicate 1 if samples were not pooled),
Collection date,The date of sample collection,(i) YYYY (ii) YYYY-MM (iii) YYYY-MM-DD
Collection time,The time of sample collection in 24-hour time format, (i) hh (ii) hh:mm (iii) hh:mm:ss
Collection method,Method used for collecting mosquitoes,"Human landing catch, mouth aspirator, Prokopack aspirator"
Collection bait,"Where applicable, record type of bait used ","CO2, Cattle"
Sample storage preservative,Type of preservative used to store sample post collection,"None, Ethanol, RNALater? "
Sample storage temperature,,"-20C, -80C"
Sample storage duration,Storage duration from time of sample collection to time of processing for sequencing,"None, 6months, 3 years"
Collection country,Country where sample was collected,
Collection village,Village where sample was collected,
Location coordinates,"Collection location GPS coordinates. Latitude and longitude GPS coordinates in decimal degrees or degrees, minutes, seconds format. Also indicate the geodetic system.","00.000000, 00.000000"
Temperature,"Where applicable, record the temperature of collection site",
Humidity,"Where applicable, record the humidity of collection site",
Sample taxonomy,Record the mosquito species,Anopheles albimanus
Strain,"Laboratory or field collected. If laboratory, specify name of strain","Field-collected, STECLA, KISUMU"
Developmental stage,Sample developmental stage,"Larval instar, pupa, adults, etc"
Sex,"Here, indicate sample sex. Also indcate if both sexes are pooled","Male, female, both"
Age,Specify if known,3d post eclosion
Mating status,"Where applicable, specify if known","Virgin, mated, unknown"
Gonotrophic status,"Where applicable, specify if known","Non gravid, gravid, half-gravid"
Blood fed,Specify if sample(s) is visibly blood fed,"non blood-fed, blood-fed"
Sugar fed,"Where applicable, specify if known","non sugar-fed, sugar-fed"
Generation,Where applicable,"Unkown, F1, F6, etc."
Additional sample information,List other measured/observed sample characteristics that are relevant to the research questions,"virus/parasite infection status, insecticide resistance status etc"
Tissue processed,Whole sample or specific tissues,"Whole mosquito, Midgut, Ovaries, Cuticle surface etc"
Biomolecule processed,,"DNA, RNA, protein, etc."
Downstream processing,Each downstream processing step from biomolecule extraction to sequencing should be recorded. Specify the  name of in-house or commercial methods were used,"QIAGEN extraction, 16S rRNA PCR, MiSeq platform, etc."
Description,"A general description of the goals of the study, experimental design, and any other study-specific information. ",
